[Triton] Add Triton template to run Stable Diffusion on Anyscale Platform (#228)
anyscale/templates: templates/triton_services/README.md

# Using Triton Inference Server on Anyscale Services

**⏱️ Time to complete**: 30 minutes (1 hour on GCP)

This guide walks you through develop and deploy Triton Server applications in Anyscale
though running a Stable Diffusion 1.5 service.

In this tutorial, you will learn:
1. Build Docker image for Triton Server to run in Anyscale platform.
2. Compile model using Triton's Python backend on Anyscale Workspaces.

> 3. Run Triton Server locally on Anyscale Workspaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run Triton Server on Ray Serve locally on Anyscale Workspaces.
```

Run this code to start a Triton server using the `/tmp/workspace/diffusion-models`
directory as the model repository.

```python
import tritonserver

model_repository = ["/tmp/workspace/diffusion-models"]

triton_server = tritonserver.Server(
    model_repository=model_repository,
    model_control_mode=tritonserver.ModelControlMode.EXPLICIT,
)
triton_server.start(wait_until_ready=True)
```

Compile the model using Triton's Python backend. This takes 10-15 minutes on a
T4 GPU and 8-10 minutes on an A10G GPU. The model saves in the `model_repository`
directory as TensorRT engine artifacts. Also keep in mind the model compiling
needs to in the same type of GPU you are planning to serve the model on.

```python
import time
import datetime

print(f"start time: {datetime.datetime.now()}")
t0 = time.time()
model = triton_server.load("stable_diffusion_1_5")
duration = time.time() - t0
print(f"Total duration: {duration}s")

# Unload the model and the server to free the memory.
triton_server.unload(model, wait_until_unloaded=True)
triton_server.stop()
```

After the model compile, you can upload the model to a cloud storage. You need to

> upload both the model config file `config.pbtxt` and the TensorRT engine model

Reviewer 2: where is the engine model directory? is it the `model_repository` you set earlier?

use consistent language and also would add an explicit comment in the code about where the model will be saved (it's really non-obvious right now)

directory. Anyscale provides a environment variable `ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE` for

> customers to store model artifacts. Use one of the following to upload the model.

Reviewer 2: link to the storage docs here

```python
# If running in AWS

> !aws s3 cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt

Reviewer: since this is a md, suggest removing the ! at the start of files to make copy paste easier

# If you are running in AWS.
aws s3 cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt

> aws s3 cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ --recursive

Reviewer 2: seems like the first copy of the text file isn't necessary if you just copy the whole `triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/` directory

Author: True, but there are also some .py and onnx files getting autogenerated in this directory. I don't want to confuse the user to copy those other files that's not needed. Also it helps to save time not to upload the entire directory :)

Reviewer 2: Got it. Maybe specify that those aren't needed in a comment

```

```python
# If you are running in GCP.
gcloud storage cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt
gcloud storage cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ --recursive

> ```

Reviewer 2: you can use a `Tab` for this, search docs for `TabItem` for examples

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> # Using Triton Inference Server on Anyscale Services

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Using Triton Inference Server with Anyscale Services
```

**⏱️ Time to complete**: 30 minutes on AWS and 1 hour on GCP

> This guide walks you through develop and deploy Triton Server applications in Anyscale

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide develops and deploys a Stable Diffusion 1.5 service as a Triton Server app in Anyscale.
```

> though running a Stable Diffusion 1.5 service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This tutorial shows:
1. Build Docker image for Triton Server to run in Anyscale platform.
2. Compile model using Triton's Python backend on Anyscale Workspaces.
3. Run Triton Server on Ray Serve locally on Anyscale Workspaces.
4. Deploy the application on Anyscale Services.

**Note**: This guide isn't meant to substitute with the official Triton documentation.
For more information, refer to the
[Triton Inference Server documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/index.html).

**Note**: This tutorial is only using GPU head node since it includes the step to
compile the model. GPU instances can take longer to start and cost more than CPU
instances. If you already have the model compiled and stored in a cloud storage, you
can start head node on a CPU instance instead.

> ## Build Docker image for Triton Server to run in Anyscale platform

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Build a Docker image for Triton Server to run on the Anyscale platform
```

> The tutorial starts by building a Docker image that can run properly in Anyscale

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The tutorial starts by building a Docker image that can run properly on the Anyscale
```

> platform. You don't need to build the image from scratch. The image used to run this

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
platform. You don't need to build the image from scratch. The image in this
```

> tutorial is already used in the workspace. This section is just for informational

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
tutorial is the same image that the workspace uses. This section is informational.
```

> purposes. Some of the code used here are from Nvidia's tutorials from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some of the tutorial code is from Nvidia's tutorials:
```

[TenserRT Stable Diffusion](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT/blob/release/10.0/demo/Diffusion/README.md),
[Triton building complex pipeline](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/r24.04/Conceptual_Guide/Part_6-building_complex_pipelines/README.md),
and [Triton Ray Serve Deployment](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/r24.04/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/examples/rayserve).

> If you need to learn more about TensorRT and Triton, refer to their official

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn more about TensorRT and Triton, see their official
```

> documentation and tutorial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
documentation and tutorial.
```

> In Nvidia's tutorial, they have an image to build the model and another image to serve

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Nvidia tutorial has an image to build the model and another image to serve
```

> the model. In this tutorial, the docker image pulls in all the necessary dependencies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the model. This tutorial has a docker image that pulls in all the necessary dependencies.
```

> This image compiles the model, allow you to do local development in Anyscale Workspace,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This image compiles the model, allows you to do local development in Anyscale Workspaces,
```

> and deploys to Anyscale Services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and deploys using Anyscale Services.
```

> The full `Dockerfile` used to build the image is already provided in the workspace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Anyscale uses the full `Dockerfile` to build the image and provides it in the workspace.
```

> You can view the file by clicking on the `Dockerfile` in the file explorer. It shows

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
View the file by clicking on `Dockerfile` in the file explorer. It shows
```

> what's required in the image to run this tutorial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the image requirements for this tutorial.
```

> ## Compile model using Triton's Python backend on Anyscale Workspaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Compile a model using Triton's Python backend in Anyscale Workspaces
```

Unlike Nvidia's tutorial, this tutorial doesn't include models in the Docker image.

> Instead, in this section, you are building the model and upload the model to a cloud

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instead, in this section, you build the model and upload the model to cloud
```

storage such as AWS S3 or GCP Storage for serving later.

Run this code to start a Triton server using the `/tmp/workspace/diffusion-models`
directory as the model repository.

```python
import tritonserver

model_repository = ["/tmp/workspace/diffusion-models"]

triton_server = tritonserver.Server(
    model_repository=model_repository,
    model_control_mode=tritonserver.ModelControlMode.EXPLICIT,
)
triton_server.start(wait_until_ready=True)
```

> Compile the model using Triton's Python backend. This takes 10-15 minutes on a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Compile the model using Triton's Python backend. The compile takes 10-15 minutes on a
```

> T4 GPU and 8-10 minutes on an A10G GPU. The model saves in the `model_repository`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
T4 GPU and 8-10 minutes on an A10G GPU. The model saves TensorRT engine artifacts
```

> directory as TensorRT engine artifacts. Also keep in mind the model compiling

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 in the `model_repository` directory. Keep in mind that the model compiling
```

> needs to in the same type of GPU you are planning to serve the model on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
needs to be in the same type of GPU you plan to serve the model on.
```

```python
import time
import datetime

print(f"start time: {datetime.datetime.now()}")
t0 = time.time()
"""

> This line below will execute TensorRT's diffusion backend to compile the model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The line below executes TensorRT's diffusion backend to compile the model.
```

> It will load the weights from hugging face. Export the model into ONNX format

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It loads the weights from Hugging Face. Export the model into ONNX format
```

> onto the model repository directory. Then compile the model into TensorRT engine

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
into the model repository directory. Then compile the model into a TensorRT engine
```

> and also store the artifacts in the model repository directory. For more details,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and store the artifacts in the model repository directory. For more details,
```

> you can check the `stable_diffusion_pipeline.py` file in the `diffusion` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
see the `stable_diffusion_pipeline.py` file in the `diffusion` directory.
```

"""
model = triton_server.load("stable_diffusion_1_5")
duration = time.time() - t0
print(f"Total duration: {duration}s")

# Unload the model and the server to free the memory.
triton_server.unload(model, wait_until_unloaded=True)
triton_server.stop()
```

> After the model compile, you can upload the model to a cloud storage. There are some

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the model compile completes, upload the model to cloud storage. The previous step generates some
```

> .py and onnx files generated by the previous step in the same model repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.py and onnx files in the same model repository.
```

You only need to upload both the model config file `config.pbtxt` and the TensorRT
engine artifacts from the model repository. Anyscale provides an environment variable

> `ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE` for customers to store model artifacts. If you want to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE` for customers to store model artifacts. To
```

> learn more about the storage, you can check the 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
learn more about the storage, see 
```

> [doc](https://docs.anyscale.com/1.0.0/services/storage/#object-storage-s3-or-gcs-buckets).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Object Storage (S3 or GCS buckets)](https://docs.anyscale.com/1.0.0/services/storage/#object-storage-s3-or-gcs-buckets).
```

> Use one of the following to upload the model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use one of the following tabs to upload the model:
```

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="AWS" label="AWS" default>

```python
aws s3 cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt
aws s3 cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ --recursive
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="GCP" label="GCP">

```python
gcloud storage cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/config.pbtxt
gcloud storage cp /tmp/workspace/diffusion-models/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ $ANYSCALE_ARTIFACT_STORAGE/triton_model_repository/stable_diffusion_1_5/1/1.5-engine-batch-size-1/ --recursive
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## Run Triton Server on Ray Serve locally on Anyscale Workspaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Run Triton Server on Ray Serve locally in Anyscale Workspaces
```

> The `triton_app.py` included in this workspace demonstrates using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `triton_app.py` in this workspace demonstrates how to use a
```

> remote model repository to start triton serve, loading the specific Stable Diffusion

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
remote model repository to start Triton serve, load the specific Stable Diffusion
```

> model, run inference with Triton, and serving the response through Ray Serve.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
model, run inference with Triton, and serve the response with Ray Serve.
```

> You can view the file by clicking on the `triton_app.py` in the file explorer. In

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
View the file by clicking on`triton_app.py` in the file explorer.
```

> addition, you can also do prompt engineering, apply business logic, or doing model

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also do prompt engineering, apply business logic, or do model
```

composition with Ray Serve before returning the response as image. Run the follow code
to start Triton Server with Ray Serve.

```python
serve run triton_app:triton_deployment --non-blocking
```

> Cluster autoscaler starts a GPU worker node. The model downloads from the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The cluster autoscaler starts a GPU worker node. The model downloads from the
```

> cloud storage location where you just uploaded the model artifacts, and then loaded into

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
cloud storage location where you just uploaded the model artifacts, and then loads into
```

> the Triton Server and serve the endpoint with Ray Serve. It might take few minutes to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the Triton Server and serve sthe endpoint with Ray Serve. It might take few minutes to
```

Author: assuming this is `the Triton Server and serve "an" endpoint with Ray Serve. It might take few minutes to`

start the server.

> Once you see the message "Deployed app 'default' successfully." You can run the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you see the message "Deployed app 'default' successfully", you can run the
```

following command to query the endpoint and save the image to a local file.

```python
curl "http://localhost:8000/generate?prompt=dogs%20in%20new%20york,%20realistic,%204k,%20photograph" > dogs_photo.jpg
```

> An example of generated image looks like the following

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following image is an example of a generated image looks:
```

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anyscale/templates/main/templates/triton_services/assets/dogs_photo.jpg"/>

> ## Deploy the application on Anyscale Services

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Deploy the app using Anyscale Services
```

> Once you completed local development on the workspace and ready to move to production,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you complete local development in the workspace and are ready to move to production,
```

> you can deploy the service onto Anyscale Services by running the following command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
you can deploy the service with Anyscale Services by running the following command:
```

```python
anyscale service deploy --name "triton-stable-diffusion" triton_app:triton_deployment
```

> This command starts a fresh cluster, and deploy the same code you just ran locally

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This command starts a fresh cluster, and deploys the same code you ran locally
```

to a service. The cluster should contain two nodes, a head node, and a worker node,

> where the replica is running on the worker. You can see output similar to the following

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
where the replica is running on the worker. You should see output similar to the following:
```

```commandline
(anyscale +1.5s) Starting new service 'triton-stable-diffusion'.
(anyscale +2.1s) Uploading local dir '.' to cloud storage.
(anyscale +2.9s) Including workspace-managed pip dependencies.
(anyscale +3.8s) Service 'triton-stable-diffusion' deployed.
(anyscale +3.8s) View the service in the UI: 'https://console.anyscale.com/services/service2_s8cwtlwwvukzxzd256z1wyqmj9'
(anyscale +3.8s) Query the service once it's running using the following curl command:
(anyscale +3.8s) curl -H 'Authorization: Bearer pnnHyxUG_v6hzLbUn7LLmgNjF5g3t0XAxa0TXoRFV6g' https://triton-stable-diffusion-bxauk.cld-kvedzwag2qa8i5bj.s.anyscaleuserdata.com/
```

> You can click in the link to the services UI to check the status. Once it's in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click the link to the services UI to check the status. When it's status is `running`
```

> running status, you can run the following command to test the endpoint. Make sure to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
running status, run the following command to test the endpoint. Make sure to
```

> change the bearer token and the base URL to the one showed from the deployment output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
change the bearer token and the base URL to the values printed in the deployment output.
```

> This command queries against the newly deployed service and store the generated image

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This command queries the newly deployed service and stores the generated image
```

locally.

```python
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer pnnHyxUG_v6hzLbUn7LLmgNjF5g3t0XAxa0TXoRFV6g" \
    "https://triton-stable-diffusion-bxauk.cld-kvedzwag2qa8i5bj.s.anyscaleuserdata.com/generate?prompt=dogs%20in%20new%20york,%20realistic,%204k,%20photograph" \
    > dogs_photo_service.jpg
```

> An example of generated image looks like the following

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is an example of a generated image:
```
